## Introduction

Here is a sample obsidian vault by Nick McMillan. It blends a few different ideas like the PARA method and hierachical note taking (seen in the note taking app Dendron). 

There is no correct way to use Obsidian (or other PKM tools), and my own vault organization will probably change as I figure out what works best for me. 

To fully explore this vault, please clone the repo and open up in Obsidian.

## Vault Layout

### General Layout

- All notes lives in the `./notes folder.` 
- All media (like PNG, PDF, etc...) lives in the `./notes/assets/` folder.
- All template notes (notes that can be premade and autogenerated to make note taking easier) live in `./utilities/templates/`

## Hiearchical Note Taking

Hiarchies are defined by periods in a file name. Periods take the place of folders and offer a few distinct advantages compared to folders. 

1. It allows you to see all you notes and not need to dig through folders that can become nested
2. The hiearchies can be easily refactored using regex tools. I personally use the refactoring commands of Dendron. This vault layout is compatibly with Dendron so I can easily open it up and refactor my hierachies in seconds. As notes scales or you need to make changes to how your notes are organized, you won't need to dig through folders and rearrange.

My top hiearchies (or folders) are modeled after the PARA method of organization. Please read the blog by Tiago Forte to learn more about PARA as he will do a much better job at my then explaining. I find that this method of organization allows me to easily split my life and notes into deadlines, areas of responsbility, areas of interest, and research/technical notes. I have added extra heiarchies such as the `@` heiarchy for contacts and the `home` heiarchy for aggreating information in my vault to act upon.

The structure is as following:


- [[home]]:  This main notes offers a way to aggregate information in my vault to act upon and plan my life
- [[project]]: A project is “a series of tasks linked to a goal, with a deadline.”
- [[area]]: An **area of responsibility** is “a sphere of activity with a standard to be maintained over time.”
- [[resource]]: A **resource** is “a topic or theme of ongoing interest.”
- [[archive]]: An **archive** includes “inactive items from the other three categories.”
- [[@]]: List of people that are connected to the projects, areas, resources, and archives of my vault. I connect them to these different areas through through backlinks instead of heiarchical note taking. 

Each of these top heiarchies exist as a note. Below I will go into adding notes under a heiarchy.


### Example

Let's say I want to add a project, which is something with a deadline that needs to be finished. I am a data journalist at NPR and also do freelance videography on the side. I also like to work on personal projects in my freetime to grow my skills. 

Therefore I would want to add three heiarchies under the project category.

To do this I add three notes as followings:

- [[project.npr]]
- [[project.freelance]]
- [[proect.personal]]

If I am working on an investigation into cryptocurrency at NPR, I would make a note with the title:

- [[project.npr.cryptocurrency]]

### Heiarchies that work for me

For each type of note (project, area, resource, archive, @), I have come up with the following children notes that offer a structure that makes sense to me. Feel free to change or add to make them work better for you. 


```

- project
project.company
project.company.project-name
project.company.project-name.meeting
project.company.project-name.meeting.2023-01-28--meeting-title
project.company.project-name.note
project.company.project-name.log
project.company.project-name.meeting.todo



- @
@.Firstname-LastName

- area
area.sport


```






